DDs support two types of operations: transformations, which create a new dataset from an existing one, and actions, which return a value to the driver program after running a computation on the dataset. For example, map is a transformation that passes each dataset element through a function and returns a new RDD representing the results. On the other hand, reduce is an action that aggregates all the elements of the RDD using some function and returns the final result to the driver program (although there is also a parallel reduceByKey that returns a distributed dataset).
All transformations in Spark are lazy, in that they do not compute their results right away. Instead, they just remember the transformations applied to some base dataset (e.g. a file). The transformations are only computed when an action requires a result to be returned to the driver program. This design enables Spark to run more efficiently. For example, we can realize that a dataset created through map will be used in a reduce and return only the result of the reduce to the driver, rather than the larger mapped dataset.
By default, each transformed RDD may be recomputed each time you run an action on it. However, you may also persist an RDD in memory using the persist (or cache) method, in which case Spark will keep the elements around on the cluster for much faster access the next time you query it. There is also support for persisting RDDs on disk, or replicated across multiple nodes.
Local vs. cluster modes
The behavior of the above code is undefined, and may not work as intended. To execute jobs, Spark breaks up the processing of RDD operations into tasks, each of which is executed by an executor. Prior to execution, Spark computes the task’s closure. The closure is those variables and methods which must be visible for the executor to perform its computations on the RDD (in this case foreach()). This closure is serialized and sent to each executor.
The variables within the closure sent to each executor are now copies and thus, when counter is referenced within the foreach function, it’s no longer the counter on the driver node. There is still a counter in the memory of the driver node but this is no longer visible to the executors! The executors only see the copy from the serialized closure. Thus, the final value of counter will still be zero since all operations on counter were referencing the value within the serialized closure.
In local mode, in some circumstances the foreach function will actually execute within the same JVM as the driver and will reference the same original counter, and may actually update it.
To ensure well-defined behavior in these sorts of scenarios one should use an Accumulator. Accumulators in Spark are used specifically to provide a mechanism for safely updating a variable when execution is split up across worker nodes in a cluster. The Accumulators section of this guide discusses these in more detail.
In general, closures - constructs like loops or locally defined methods, should not be used to mutate some global state. Spark does not define or guarantee the behavior of mutations to objects referenced from outside of closures. Some code that does this may work in local mode, but that’s just by accident and such code will not behave as expected in distributed mode. Use an Accumulator instead if some global aggregation is needed.
Printing elements of an RDD
Another common idiom is attempting to print out the elements of an RDD using rdd.foreach(println) or rdd.map(println). On a single machine, this will generate the expected output and print all the RDD’s elements. However, in cluster mode, the output to stdout being called by the executors is now writing to the executor’s stdout instead, not the one on the driver, so stdout on the driver won’t show these! To print all elements on the driver, one can use the collect() method to first bring the RDD to the driver node thus: rdd.collect().foreach(println). This can cause the driver to run out of memory, though, because collect() fetches the entire RDD to a single machine; if you only need to print a few elements of the RDD, a safer approach is to use the take(): rdd.take(100).foreach(println).
